Canada's Newest Judge
June 11, 1999


The woman who charged Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic for war crimes has been appointed to Canada's Supreme Court. 

The Supreme Court is Canada's highest court. 
Louise Arbour will become the high court's third female justice when she begins her new job in September. 

Justice Minister Anne McLellan says the 52-year-old Arbour is perfect for the job and will replace retired justice Peter Cory quite nicely. 

Ms. McLellan says Judge Arbour will make sure the tribunal continues to pursue its cases against Milosevic and his fellow accused ministers. 
She says Judge Arbour's work prosecuting war crimes would enhance the Supreme Court, describing her as "a woman who has dealt with some of the most difficult and challenging issues of our modern time. 

"I think it is unquestioned that she will make a singular contribution to the highest court in the land." 

Judge Arbour's last major act as chief prosecutor was to indict Slobodan Milosevic for crimes against humanity two weeks ago -- the first time an international court has charged a sitting head of state with war crimes. 
She held the Yugoslav President personally responsible, along with four of his aides, for the horrors in Kosovo and the brutal purge of ethnic Albanians. 

It appears to be no coincidence that Ms. McLellan announced the appointment the day after NATO and Yugoslav generals signed a detailed military agreement on the withdrawal of Yugoslav and Serb forces from Kosovo. 
The government was very aware of how tricky it would be to take her away from her high-profile assignment of prosecuting Milosevic. 

Judge Arbour will not start work until September 15th. 

Judge Arbour is seen as having a sound knowledge of the law, coupled with an understanding of the practical implications that judgments have on people. 
Her multitude of friends describe her as legally brilliant, charming, and possessed of a common touch. 

"Louise Arbour is a down-to-earth individual, who understands the needs of the ordinary person," says lawyer Earl Levy. 

Judge Arbour graduated from the University of Montreal with a law degree in 1970. 

In 1995, she headed an inquiry into the mistreatment of women in the Prison for Women in Kingston, Ontario. 
In 1996, she was appointed to her position as chief prosecutor at the war-crimes tribunal. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> When will Judge Arbour start her new job on Canada's Supreme Court?
<Q2> Who is Judge Arbour replacing in her new job?
<Q3> Before getting her new position, what was Judge Arbour's job?
<Q4> Where did Judge Arbour get her law degree?
<Q5> Who says Louise Arbour is "a down-to-earth individual"?
<Q6> How many sitting heads of state have been charged with war crimes?
<Q7> What was the president of Yugoslavia indicted for?
<Q8> Why was the announcement about Judge Arbour not made until NATO and Yugoslavia signed an agreement?
