Saving The Family Farm
January 14, 2000


Amanda Scott is only seventeen years old, but she knows where her heart is: back on her family's farm near Brandon, Manitoba. 
She also knows firsthand how hard it is for farm families to make a living. 

Reports of crisis on Canadian farms first became national news in the Fall of 1998. 
Government aid was promised to struggling farmers trying to keep their farms running. 
The crunch was particularly felt in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, among hog and grain farmers. 

But instead of complaining, Amanda is going on stage. 
This Sunday she's going to be singing in Toronto, Ontario, with some of the best-known names in Canadian music. 
It is called The Family Farm Tribute. 
The concert is meant to open people's eyes to the growing farm crisis in Canada. 

The lineup for the concert includes Gordon Lightfoot, Burton Cummings, Sylvia Tyson, Kevin Parent, Fred Penner and Sharon, Lois and Bram, as well as bands such as Wide Mouth Mason and Big Sugar. 

"I know with my Dad the stress of not being able to get the crops in, it builds up, you know?", says Amanda. 
"And then also it's the pressure of continuing on with what your forefathers have started on the family farm." 

The concert is being organized by Liberal Member of Parliament Dennis Mills. 
He says the concert will achieve two things. 
It will bring rural problems to the attention of an urban audience, and it will show the country that Toronto cares. 

"People beyond the 416 area code [the area code for Toronto], especially in the West, tend to think we are an evil, uncaring, don't-give-a-damn-kind of community. 
I know that's not the case and I think an event like this brings us together as a nation." 

The concert's not a sell-out yet. 
There were still 3,000 tickets available as of yesterday afternoon. 
Even if it's not packed to the rafters, Mills says the concert's message will still get out as people across the country can tune into the event live on CBC Newsworld. 

Federal Agriculture Minister Lyle Vanclief and his provincial counterparts are meeting today in Ottawa, Ontario, to work out a new aid package for cash-strapped farmers. 
It could be worth as much as $1 billion. 

CBC Online will be presenting a live webcast of The Family Farm Tribute starting at 1pm Eastern right here: http://cbc.ca/news/live/familyfarm.html. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> When did reports of a crisis on Canadian farms first become national news?
<Q2> Where is the Family Farm Tribute concert being held?
<Q3> What is the Family Farm Tribute concert meant to do?
<Q4> What pressure does Amanda Scott say she feels?
<Q5> What two things will the Family Farm Tribute concert achieve, according to organizer Dennis Mills?
<Q6> According to Mills, how do people beyond the 416 area code, especially in the West, tend to think of Toronto?
<Q7> Why does Mills say that the concert's message will get out even if it's not a sellout?
<Q8> Who is meeting in Ottawa, Ontario, to work out a new aid package for cash-strapped farmers?
<Q9> How will CBC Online be presenting the Family Farm Tribute concert?
