Canadians Participate in Yugoslavian War
March 26, 1999


Canadian bombs hit their targets during NATO's initial attacks on war-torn Yugoslavia, officials announced yesterday. 
The announcement was made before the CF-18 jets had returned from a second round of battle. 

Four of the fighter bombers from Bagotville, Quebec returned safely to their Italian base late Thursday after a second day of air strikes aimed at ending ethnic bloodshed in the province of Kosovo. 

"The guys are back and they're safe," Captain David Muralt said from Aviano. 
"They seem to be in pretty good spirits and we're pretty happy to see them back. 
Everybody's a little expectant when they're gone." 

In Ottawa, Ontario, officials gave the first descriptions of Canada's role in Wednesday's lead wave. 

"There were four aircraft and they had four separate targets," said lieutenant-general Ray Henault, deputy chief of defence staff. 
"Three of the four targets assigned to our aircraft were hit. 

"One of the pilots was unable to positively identify the target that he had been assigned and, as a measure and a mark of excellent discipline, he didn't launch his weapons." 

There were no immediate damage estimates. 

Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy has said the goal is to force Yugoslavia to accept a peace agreement proposed by the United States. 
It would allow ethnic Albanians in Kosovo to govern themselves. 

That is what seems to lie at the heart of the conflict. 
The government of Yugoslavia -- which is mostly Serbian -- does not want to allow the region of Kosovo, where most of the residents are of Albanian heritage, to rule themselves. 

"We are trying to deliver the message that military force against civilians is not acceptable," Mr. Axworthy said in Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

"The targets are those that are military and every effort is being made to keep whatever other casualties to a minimum." 

"We are trying to stop a humanitarian disaster," Defence Minister Art Eggleton told the House of Commons. 
"We must, in fact, ensure that this genocide comes to an end." 

Yugoslavia is thought to have dangerous air defences, including surface-to-air missiles and anti-aircraft guns. 

Over the past three days Serbian Canadians and anti-war demonstrators have been holding protests in a number of Canadian cities. 
Tomorrow there will be a demonstration in front of the House of Commons. 

<QUESTIONS>
<Q1> Where are the Canadian fighter bombers based?
<Q2> What is the goal of the NATO bombing in Yugoslavia?
<Q3> How would the U.S. peace proposal settle the crisis?
<Q4> How many of the targets they were given did the Canadian fighter bombers hit?
<Q5> Why did one pilot not launch his weapons?
<Q6> Who has been protesting the bombing in Yugoslavia?
<Q7> When is a demonstration planned for the front of the House of Commons?
<Q8> What does Lloyd Axworthy say is the message that NATO is trying to deliver with the bombing?
<Q9> Who is Art Eggleton?
